# FILES & DIRECTORIES

## COMMANDS

### Directory Basic Commands
* `pwd` // Present Working Directory
* `ls` // List
* `cd` // Change Directory
    * `cd ..` // Will take you to parent directory of currect directory. Will take you one directory back. Parent director = ..
    * `cd ~` // Takes to Home directory
    * `cd -` // To last active directory you were on
    * `cd ../..` // Take you 2 dir back


### Reading File
* `cat filename.txt` // Short for concatenation. This would read the complete file and display its content
* `cat file1.txt file2.txt` //Will read and display both files content in concatenated form i.e One after the other
* `less filename.txt` // Read file in form of pages. **This supports upward scrolling**
  * `f` key or spacebar to move to next page //forward
  * `b` key to mova back on the page //backward
  * `h` //help - see various key use
  * `q` //quit


### Directory 
* `mkdir dir_name` //create a new dir, won't create if that already exists
* `mkdir -p dir1/dir2` // create all nested directories in one go.


### Moving and Renaming Files & Directories
* `mv file1.txt new_folder` // Will move file1 inside new_folder
* `mv file1.txt file2.txt` // Will rename file1 to file2 in same folder
* `mv test/test2 .` // Move test2 dir to current directory
* mv options : 
  * `-f` //force overwrite if same name file exists 
  * `-n` // no overwrite
  * `-i` //interactive ask to overwrite or not

  
### Copying Files & Directories
* `cp file1.txt new_folder` //Copy file1 to new_folder
* `cp -R old_folder new_folder` // To copy directories `-R` has to be specified which means `recurssive` copy everything inside of directory to new location.


### Deleting Files & Directories
* `rm file1.txt` //Remove file1 permanently deleted. 
* `rm -R dir` //Remove entire directory using `-R` option

### Find & Search 
* `find path expression`
* Eg : find /home -name "file1.txt" //search file1.txt in root directory. Return path of that file
* Wildcard : 
  * `* `// zero or more characters
  * `?` // one character
  * `[]` // List of characters inside the list
## Options 

* `-l` //
* `-h` //
* `-a` // All, this is to show all files. Even system files which start with dot. EG : .trash , .atom , etc
* `.` // represents current directory
* `..` //represent parent directory